# Building a Blazor front end

In this session, we'll add the code for the client application. Create a view for the conference sessions, details and speaker information.

## Creating the Blazor project

Create the new Blazor application using the `dotnet` CLI in the **ConferencePlanner** folder.

```bash
dotnet new blazorserver -n BlazorFrontEnd -o src/BlazorFrontEnd
```

Add the new project to the solution

```bash
dotnet sln add src/BlazorFrontEnd/BlazorFrontEnd.csproj
```

Add a project reference to the ConferenceDTO project

```bash
dotnet add src/BlazorFrontEnd reference src/ConferenceDTO
```

Add a package reference to the Web API client package

```bash
dotnet add src/BlazorFrontEnd package Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.Client
```

## Clean up

You can remove some of the template code from the BlazorFrontEnd project that we won't be using:

- Remove **Pages/Counter.razor**.
- Remove **Pages/FetchData.razor**.
- Remove the **Data** folder.
- Remove the `NavLink` list items in **Shared/_MainLayout.razor** for the removed counter and fetch data pages.
- Remove the service configuration for the `WeatherForecastService` in **Startup.cs**.

## Add the API client

We can reuse the `IApiClient` implementation from the FrontEnd project.

- Copy **Services/IApiClient** and **Services/ApiClient** into the BlazorFrontEnd project.
- Update **Startup.cs** in the BlazorFrontEnd project to configure the `IApiClient` service.

  ```csharp
  services.AddHttpClient<IApiClient, ApiClient>(client =>
  {
      client.BaseAddress = new Uri(Configuration["serviceUrl"]);
  });
  ```

- Copy the `ServiceUrl` property in **appsettings.json** in the FrontEnd project to the **appsettings.json** file in the BlazorFrontEnd project.
- Add the following using directives to **_Imports.razor**:

```razor
@using ConferenceDTO
@using FrontEnd.Services
```

## List the sessions

> Now that we have a service to talk to the API, we'll add the views to display a basic list of all sessions for the conference and validate the FrontEnd / API communication.

### Create and add the Sessions component

TODO

#### Running the application

Start the Web API Application using Visual Studio or VS Code. It should start on http://localhost:50069

In another editor or process, start the BlazorFrontEnd application pressing F5 or running `dotnet run` and your SPA application will be available on http://localhost:5000.

### Creating the Session Detail Page

Now that we have a home page showing all the sessions, we'll create a page to show all the details of a specific session

TODO

### Create the Speaker Detail Page

We'll add a page to show details for a given speaker

TODO

**Previous**: [Session #7 - Challenges](7.%20Challenges.md)
